rogue protagonist has most versatility
ethereals / mortals / supernaturals
feathers of time / manual saves

Vampires

Vampires are demons from beyond the universe. Long ago, Vampires tricked power-hungry mortals into opening a gateway into their universe. Mortals joined with the gods to stop the Vampire invasion, preventing their Vampire god from entering and consuming the universe. Individual Vampires remain though, freed from their god’s control. They still prey on mortals and use their power from the shadows to manipulate mortals.

Vampire ranks:
Emperess - the Vampire Death-God, bound to eternal slumber - though some mortals and vampires seek to re-awaken her.

Kings and Queens - the highest Vampire Royalty.

Princes and Princesses - the lower Vampire Royalty.

Dukes and Duchesses -  Highest Vampire Nobility.

Barons and Baronesses - Lower Vampire Nobility

Lords and Ladies - Common Vampires who serve the nobility yet stand above the darklings and mortals, though they are limited in their right to exercise their whims by the rights of Nobles and Royalty over their property. Only over the mortals and minions in their own houses is their rule absolute.

Long ago a great battle in this Universe bound the Emperess to eternal slumber. Her minions still feel the pull of her savage dreams, but are free of her dominion. Without her power, the lesser vampires are stranded in this domain. Without her ravenous hunger to feed, they are no longer driven to inexorably destroy all life in the orgy of bloodshed which was once their way. Instead, to maintain their own existence they have learned to live in balance with their prey. They no-longer strip-mine all mortal life, instead they farm mortal beings on which to feed. Mortal culture continues much as it did before, but now with a new purpose, to maintain the largest herds possible of the many peoples of the world, in order to maximize the life-wealth of their masters. The Vampires cull the old from their herds, but from the rest of their herds they merely sip, so as to maintain their power.

Lesser demonic beings and demon-corrupted mortals are known as darklings. Originally they were beasts and sentient beings from countless universes that the Vampires enslaved eons ago to serve their needs. They are the many kinds of scouts, warriors, overseers, and reapers that the vampires loosed upon the world to defeat their opponents, but also their servants and artisans. Some are closely bound to the Vampires' service, while others were uncontrollable weapons of terror that were loosed upon their enemies during the war but which now roam freely, spreading terror and chaos among the Vampires’ herds. 
Factions
The factions are designated by nominal alliance, though not all members of a faction are necessarily of that alliance. This alliance-designation is primarily for convenience sake.

EVIL - Vampires: sub factions are:
Lawful Evil - the dominant evil faction, they wish to maintain the status quo and focus on worldly power and competition against their political rivals within and between the Vampire courts.

Neutral Evil - seek to restore their Emperess to her rightful place as ruler of all Vampires, to reap this universe and move on as was once their way.

Chaotic Evil - seek to darken the sky so the sun no longer shines and Vampires can walk freely in the open. They point to mortal prisoners who have survived in their dungeons for decades as proof of it being a myth that mortals need the sun to survive, and claim there is no proof that plants need the sun.

EVIL mortals - Necromancers
Necromancers seek to become the equals of Vampires by draining human life. They perform twisted experiments on both mortal and Vampire subjects.

CHAOTIC EVIL mortals - Recreants
Mortal cults corrupted by the Emperess who seek to gain power by opening portals to the vampiric realm.

NEUTRAL EVIL mortals - Followers of the evil rogue Kythonian Ayremahn
Seek to cleanse the universe of all life to prepare the way for a new creation.

LAWFUL: Celestials, Templars, Paladins, and Inquisitors
Followers of the god of order, seek to restore order though few understand the true implications.

Lawful Neutral : Templars - Seek to create a highly ordered world, by slaying the Vampires and taking control of civilization to root out the recreants, necromancers, lycanthropes, and druids. They tolerate Mages, at least for now, but only work with Mages in dire circumstances.

Lawful Good : Paladins - Seek to create an orderly civilization by slaying the Vampires and taking control of civilization to eliminate the Necromancers and Recreants, and either negotiate or force a peace with the Druids and Lycanthropes. They work with Mages when it benefits their goals.

Lawful Evil : Inquisitors - In the short term, seek to kill all Vampires and any who serve them in any way, even their slaves. They make war on the Druids, Lycanthropes, Trolls, and Mages seeing them as even more dangerous than the Vampires because they split humanity who could otherwise unite against the Vampire threat.
CHAOTIC: Kythonians, Druids, Trolls, Lycanthropes
Fight for chaos, freedom, or wildness. Few understand the consequences of chaos winning.

Chaotic Good : Druids - Seek to hunt Vampires and break down the civilization that the Vampires depend on for power. Believe that creating a free society that returns to a decentralized agrarian lifestyle while encouraging mortals to embrace their wildness and live a primitive hunter-gatherer existence is the best way to create a vibrantly living world free of both Vampiric domination and Templar despotism.

Chaotic Neutral : Lycanthropes - Wild hunters who use animalistic power to fight Vampires, Necromancers, and Recreants. They are equally dangerous to any who get in their way.

Chaotic Evil : Trolls. Believe civilization is the true enemy, since most Vampires and the Templars both depend on its order, and seek to destroy it by any means necessary. They can channel pure wild chaos energy into themselves to fight empowered opponents directly, but this is always fatal, burning their mortal body out after a few hours, so they usually work indirectly through sabotage and terrorism.

GOOD: Followers of the renegade Celestial Aervedat

Neutral Good: Aervedat's Scalpel
A small order of mystic warriors using healing and defensive magic, and the ability to smite supernatural enemies with positive energy, along with their own fighting abilities to cut out what they see as the cancers of evil in the world. They fight vampires and darklings wherever they find them, seeking to free their slaves. They also fight the non-good aligned followers of the old gods, seeking to moderate the growth of civilization while cleansing construct and snuffing out Wildfyre wherever it takes hold.


NEUTRAL: Mortals of many stripes - 

Lawful Evil - seek to win favor from the Vampires through loyal service.

Neutral Evil - seek to kill all who serve Vampires in any way, including their slaves, but generally seek to preserve the social structure vampires have maintained but to replace the Vampires at the top.

Neutral Good - Mortals fighting to rid their world of the vampire menace through their own magic and technology, and to free the Vampires slaves. They believe that the Celestials and Kythonians must be either kept in balance or eliminated, while remaking the social order the Vampires established into a strong mortal civilization.

Neutral - Feel powerless to oppos the Vampires, seeking only to survive as best they can.
Lawful Neutral - Seek to serve the Celestial Lawful Good faction.

Chaotic Neutral - Seek to break down the mortal civilization that both the Vampires and Celestials depend on for control and serve the Kythonian Chaotic Good faction.

Lawful Good - Believe that a highly organized mortal society allied to the Celestials but with independence from their control and their more extreme objectives is the best chance to overthrow the Vampires and achieve lasting peace and stability.

Chaotic Good - Believe that free mortals allied to the Kythonians but with independence from their control and their more extreme objectives is the best chance to overthrow the Vampires and achieve lasting peace and stability.
